What are you up to?!
I won't let you!
Hinata, you're acting too scared!
Shouyou, he's not up to anything!
He's trying to smile! I think!
I think it's rude, Nishinoya!
Hinata, you're dead meat!
Ooh!
Our grumpy Kageyama is making the effort to smile.
You know the signals we talked about? It's time to change our strategy.
Thank you.
Did you hear about the signals from Sugawara?
He told me between sets.
All right!
We're going hard and fast.
You got it!
Haikyuu !!
I take two deep breaths and calm my heart
I take a step with my left foot to break the silence
Get your nervousness in check and reign in your mind
You have it in you
You can cast out the demons
Fate? Random chance? Questions? Answers? It's all one
This is the sign
Oh, yeah!
The world is opening to us
We pass the door,
look straight ahead, and never look back
Oh, yeah!
I put my hand to my chest
I can feel the proof that I exist
It is my beating heart
Episode Twenty-two:
Evolution
Hey, it's not that unusual.
That was really nerve-wracking.
Really?
Up till last year's interhigh, I didn't get to play in many official matches because third-years had seniority.
I hate to say it, but Kageyama has more actual match experience.
For all his so-called experience, he sure got riled up.
So anyway, His Majesty has to serve straight off.
You think he can manage?
Give us a good serve, Kageyama!
Serve up a point!
Kageyama looks happy.
Yeah.
That's a relief.
What do you mean?
I was thinking that all of us seem to have the same sort of pride when we're put in a match.
Prodigies and Average Joes alike.
Kageyama, remember to relax!
I think he's okay.
One point and he's gone!
Yeah!
Watari!
A service ace!
And they got it off the libero!
Karasuno                   Aoba Jousai
Now they're tied up!
Yes!
I'm sorry!
Don't fret it. Let's get the next point!
Yay!
What?
Double high five, you dummy!
Yay!
Kageyama is doing double high fives.
Yeah.
Sorry, cover it!
Right!
They're scattered!
It's coming back!
Here's our chance!
Send it?
Give me?
Which?
He didn't say anything!
There it is!
That fast attack is totally ridiculous!
Okay! Now Karasuno is in the lead!
Karasuno                   Aoba Jousai
When I make a ball count,
Sugawara showers me with compliments!
Hey, Hinata.
Good work.
Who are you, my boss?
Now Hinata is in his element, dammit!
And Kageyama is like a fish in water!
Kageyama?
A fish?
Shit.
Okay, calm down.
There's no need to panic and
mess up our plays like they did.
Once we take a point back, we're all good.
Yes, sir!
Hey. Stop striking that pose.
It pisses me off.
You're mean!
Okay!
Iwaizumi, nice receive!
Has Kageyama gotten his rhythm back?
I'm sorry.
Shake it off!
No, there's more to it.
I should've made it closer to the sideline.
He devoted his full attention to the opponent blockers before,
Don't sweat it! Those were all good serves.
but now he's being slightly more attentive to his teammates as well.
Thank you.
Okay, don't start holding back!
We're screwed unless we take this set!
Make those deviant fast attacks hard and fast!
Kunimi, give us a good one!
Okay!
Nice receive!
Kageyama told Hinata that "as long as I'm around, you're the greatest,"
but it goes both ways.
Your and Hinata's combined attack
is the greatest.
Okay, we hit 20 points first!
Karasuno                   Aoba Jousai
Now we're in the final stretch.
Okay, we've hit the 20 point mark.
That hurt!
It's for motivation!
Here's where the real challenge starts.
Why is this turning into Tsukishima versus Kageyama?!
One point!
Hinata, give us a good one!
It's over the net!
Here's our chance!
Mattsun, nice cover!
Kageyama!
Yes!
How was the set?
A little higher, please.
Yes, sir!
Karasuno                   Aoba Jousai
Seijou had to call for a timeout sometime.
When number ten goes back and
number eleven comes to the front row,
Karasuno does less center attacks.
Yeah.
It could simply be that Tobio doesn't like the beanpole.
Just like in yesterday's match, they don't seem to be communicating in today's match.
I think that among all of Karasuno's spikers,
Tobio finds the beanpole the hardest to work with.
Now I know I never want to be friends with you.
How come?!
You'd ferret out my weaknesses.
Why would I want to learn the weakness of a teammate?!
I think he talks to each spiker to read their faces and emotional states more
Tsukishima, I think you might be jumping to block too soon. Delay it more.
and to get a bearing on how well they feel on a given day.
Understood.
Yamaguchi, keep yelling things out!
Right!
What?
How am I supposed to read his face?
All I know is that his face pisses me off!
Kageyama.
Start with a conversation.
With a guy like Tsukishima,
you need direct communication.
Yes, sir.
I've got it!
They retrieved it! Look out for the counter!
Nice receive!
Tsukishima seems to be having trouble hitting it.
They caught up to us!
Shit, we're tied!
They scored!
Yeah.
Sir!
Right!
All right!
Do they need a stronger offense?
Karasuno has it rough without
their number ten in this situation.
Come on, guys!
You look too tense!
Stay calm!
You're moving well!
Yessir.
Hey.
How was that last set for you? Eh?
Why are you talking like Tanaka?
What's that? Eh?
It pisses me off 'cause it's like being told,
"Shut up and hit it, you pleb."
Huh?!
There you go again, Tsukishima!
You're such a child!
There's no time to bicker like that!
What do you mean?
I have my own way of doing things, so I want sets to be consistent.
Um, what's going on?
My best guess is that when Kageyama sets a quick attack for Tsukishima, he also signals where the ball should go.
m 0 0 l 150 0 150 150 0 150
Cross
A set near the setter means cross-court.
Away from the setter means turn-swing.
m 0 0 l 150 0 150 150 0 150
Turn
Kageyama obviously places it where he thinks it would be easiest to hit.
However, Tsukishima probably
finds it hard to hit sets like that.
You're not the only one who's thinking about stuff.
Whether it's the opponent's defense formation or the attacks that work for us that day,
everyone is always thinking.
Even Hinata thinks occasionally.
That's how he learned how to do regular fast attacks.
Barely, anyway.
What do you mean, "even"?
What do you mean, "barely"?!
There, there.
Understood.
You're awfully compliant today.
Are you feeling okay?
You never know what works until you try it.
Tsukishima probably isn't used to dealing with anyone with a head-on approach, so he's stuck listening.
Okay! We're taking this set!
Yeah!
Nice, Noya!
I have my own way of doing things, so I want sets to be consistent.
A diversion?
Right on!
It landed in the empty zone right behind the blockers!
He did it!
God, he pisses me off!
I thought he was gonna smash it at the last second.
Nice!
Tsukishima seems to glow when he gets the ball past an opponent!
Glow?
It's hard to tell, but that's how he looks when he's really into the match.
Ooh!
Here's our chance!
Another diversion!
Nice, Watari!
It's coming back!
Number eleven is really good at that.
We have another chance!
But isn't he avoiding direct confrontation with Seijou's high blockers?
Diversions allow him to avoid dealing with it.
So isn't number eleven actually avoiding the blockers?
Yes!
Nice, Mattsun!
Crap. They took a point right back like it was nothing.
Karasuno                   Aoba Jousai
Number eleven down the center!
Again?
Okay, I can dig it out this time!
Nice receive, Watari!
I got it!
Center!
Tanaka, nice receive!
Shit!
Tread carefully!
Sorry, it's too low! Cover it for me!
This is the one they have to get.
Will the ace take it?
Everyone is always thinking.
Number eleven again!
No! Hold your positions!
Ooh!
All right!
You really piss me off, you bastard!
You thug!
We were watching so hard for a diversion, our defense pressed too far forward.
That hurts.
I'm sorry!
They got us.
Okay, let's get the next one!
N... Ni... Nice.
Don't choke on it, Kageyama!
Whoa, Kageyama gave Tsukishima a compliment!
Kageyama is definitely starting to change.
How bad at compliments can you be?!
Karasuno                   Aoba Jousai
It's set point for Karasuno!
Get out!
One point to go!
One more point!
No, you don't!
Karasuno                   Aoba Jousai
It's okay!
One point!
Get one more point like all the other points,
and you can take this set!
Haikyuu !!
Congratulations!
Best Setter Award
Oikawa Tooru
Third year of junior high.
Best Setter Award
Oikawa Tooru
Our last tournament.
That's an honest smile for a change.
My smiles are always pure and innocent!
Saying "pure and innocent" out loud sounds impure.
Why wouldn't I be happy?
I've never gotten one before!
Oikawa Tooru is basically a laughing jackass.
But there was a time he couldn't laugh.
He had a larger build than most.
He was also naturally gifted.
His improvement was outstanding, especially after junior high.
Miyagi
Prefecture
Junior High
Newbie
Volleyball
Tournament
Miyagi
Prefecture
Junior High
Newbie
Volleyball
Tournament
But he was consistently blocked by a brick wall.
Shiratorizawa Junior High, who became known as the best in the prefecture,
had just welcomed "Big Boy" Ushiwaka into its ranks.
Why can't I beat them?!
We played against them and lost.
We didn't even take one set.
We wanted to keep going.
To a bigger stage.
But the defeats continued until our third year of junior high.
And that time...
My name is Kageyama Tobio,
and I went to Akiyama Elementary School.
I've been playing volleyball since second grade.
It's a pleasure to meet you!
A prodigy appeared to take our place.
His skill was overwhelmingly obvious.
The way he looked overjoyed to be playing the sport...
combined with the way he was used to handling a ball was far above the rest.
Basically, he can do all kinds of positions, but he'll eventually be a setter.
Yes.
After that, Oikawa started to practice even harder than before.
You're working too hard!
Coach warned you about that just yesterday!
It's all for nothing if you get injured, moron!
C'mon, you're done! Stretch!
He was completely losing his cool.
His lack of composure showed in a practice match in the form of several unimaginable setting mistakes.
And then...
Kageyama, get in there.
Yes, sir!
Okay.
Forward!
I've got it!
Nice cover!
Nice spike!
Give us a good serve!
Oikawa?
Please teach me how to serve.
Get away from me.
Don't come near me!
Get a grip, you moron!
I'm sorry.
Kageyama, I'm sorry, but we're done for the day.
Um, sure.
We swapped you out today to give you the chance to get it together.
Give yourself some credit!
How can I possibly give myself credit if I'm not good enough to beat Shiratorizawa?!
I want to win and go to nationals!
To win, I have to work harder!
It's all "me, me, me"! Just shut up!
Do you think you're playing all by yourself?!
That's not even funny, moron!
If you believe that your performance equals team performance, I'm gonna belt you one!
You already did.
No one in our team can take on Ushiwaka one on one!
But there are six people on a volleyball court!
I don't care if we're against a
first-year prodigy or Ushiwaka!
The team with the best six players is obviously the best, moron!
The team with the best six players is the best?
I'm sorry. Did I headbutt you too hard?
Yeah.
It's like, I can't even describe this.
I just suddenly feel invincible.
Wait, Iwa. Is "moron" the only bad name you can call me?
You wanna bleed from your other nostril too?
Nice location!
One more point!
I'm surprised. Oikawa looks like he's over it.
Yes.
Oikawa, please teach me how to toss the ball up before a serve.
I don't think so, you dum-dum!
Oikawa, stop messing with the first-year.
In our last tournament in junior high against Shiratorizawa,
Kitagawa First                Shiratorizawa
we won our very first set.
In the end, we took second place to Shiratorizawa.
Best Setter Award
Oikawa Tooru
Oikawa earned the best setter award.
Best Setter Award
Oikawa Tooru
This award is the proof that our spikers did their very best.
Doesn't that mean Ushiwaka is even better?
Dammit.
When I get to high school...
I'm gonna humiliate Shiratorizawa instead!
That's a given!
And then there's you, Tobio!
I don't know where you'll move on to next,
but when I do play against you, prepare to get creamed!
Big talk for someone who needs to wipe his nose.
Would you like a tissue?
Shut up!
Go for it! Go, go, go, go, Seijou!
Karasuno                      Aoba Jousai
Okay, bring it!
Let's do it!
Give us a good one!
Now it's Oikawa's turn to serve.
You're facing the guy who's second on your humiliation list!
Give it all you've got.
I know.
Ol!
Nishinoya!
It's up!
But it's heading right back to Seijou!
One mistake and that serve could've cost them the set! What a serve!
This dude is amazing!
Here's our chance!
The receive neatly came back to the setter.
It has a high rate of success
due to fast attacks from the center!
That must be it.
That's what I would do.
Now that his back is against the wall...
Oikawa will set it to Iwaizumi!
All right!
Karasuno                       Aoba Jousai
For real?
Karasuno took back a set.
That piece of shit! I'm sorry!
Shake it off.
Why are you laughing?!
I'll clobber you!
Stop saying you're going to punch me, Iwa.
Relax.
You're the only one I threaten, and I won't hit you!
That last fast attack from the center was one of our better attacks.
Huh?
I think Tobio must've predicted
Good boy! Good boy!
that I would set it to the left.
Do you understand what this means?
He wasn't thinking mechanically like he's always done.
He saw that we were on the back foot toward the end...
along with our relationship of absolute mutual trust.
We have no such thing.
Which means he made a comprehensive judgment call.
What did Mr. Pleasant over there teach Tobio?
A king who's nothing but a dictator is trying to become a decent king.
What is this?
How can I feel this way while I feel so incredibly irritated?!
Now!
I want to play the last set now!
We run laps convinced that we will all make it
We suffer through the nights for a vision we chose on a whim
If you really want fairness then we'd all look basically the same
We will suffer through more nights for a vision instead of standing still
Our passion burns until the morning and we advance with closed eyes
I haven't forgotten you despite this passion
I run with only my headlight for guidance
No matter what awaits me I will laugh in this body I was born in
Is there someone running with your taillight for guidance?
What you call determination just means bunching up
Is someone going to follow up on all these impressions?
Will vowing to never falter let me laugh again?
Next Episode Preview
We've reached the last set.
What can I say? It really isn't like me to get so worked up.
It's really unusual.
I have my ice queen image to maintain!
Maintain your volleyball image!
Next time on Haikyuu!!:
Episode Twenty-three:
The Play to Shift the Momentum
"The Play to Shift the Momentum."